These comments are supplementary to verbal feedback given in a supervisory meeting.

Simon's report is a very unusual document in that, although overall corresponding to a 2:2 classification in its current form, it contains  several indications of 1st class thinking. 

The problems with the document are primarily to do with failure to set the scene adequately so that the conclusion can be properly understood. There is no introduction: the mission of the project is unstated in the literature review so the analysis is difficult to follow. The historical development of the key ideas is simply absent in this review, so the analysis lacks an anchor.

The main areas appear to me to be (i) functional programming as a paradigm to support programmers' work, (ii) the challenges of user-interface programming and development environments to support it (known as UIDEs), and (iii) approaches to understanding and evaluating cognitive load, especially in designing Human-Computer Interactions for mentally demanding work. Prior work in these areas should be reviewed if the conclusions are to be intelligible. I would expect at least three pages on each of these areas.

On to the positives. The review is in effect a synopsis of the ideas that Simon has drawn from his reading. He makes use of a variety of relevant peer reviewed sources, showing clear evidence of critical reflection. The writing style is slightly unusual as a scientific or technical document but not inappropriate and, on the whole, rather engaging. The document as it stands reads as a concluding section to a review that is not present. Each of the authors who are cited appear to have been engaged in relevant research but no more than a sentence or even subclause is given to indicate what they did and why. Each of these citations should have been preceded by a deeper account of their work as part of the review of the three areas mentioned above.

I have great confidence in Simon's intellectual ability, careful thinking and am confident that these two attributes are backed up by considerable facility with the technologies he will make use of in his project. The main way he can improve is to be more methodical in his writing and to remember that, when he writes, he should consider that he is not writing for himself but for a reader. The reader must be able to appreciate the problem area as well as the conclusions he has reached about it, to understand alternative positions and why a particular approach has been taken in this project. 
